# CMIP
CMIP model explore various charging infrastructure network designs to serve a free-floating car-sharing fleet and determine the charging downtime experienced by the fleet for each design. Development of the CMIP model had two major steps: (1) describing modeling assumptions and (2) developing an integer program (IP) that jointly optimizes decisions about locations to install DC fast chargers and EV-to-charger assignments. The CMIP model integrates an EV charging model, EV energy consumption model, and heterogeneous, real-world vehicle use data with an integer programming optimization model to identify optimal location of new charging stations and calculate vehicle downtime for charging. The CMIP model can be applied to understand: (a) the reduction of EV fleet downtime if an additional fast-charging station is added to the current infrastructure and (b) to what extent total vehicle downtime would be sensitive to additional charging infrastructure. 

The details of modeling scope and methodology can be found at following publication
Roni, M.S., Yi, Z. and Smart, J.G., 2019. Optimal charging management and infrastructure planning for free-floating shared electric vehicles. Transportation Research Part D: Transport and Environment, 76, pp.155-175.

#Additioanl instruction to run the code: 
The MIP was solved using IBM’s CPLEX Version 12.6.2 with C++ Concert Technology. It is assumed that the users have access to cplex library. When you compile a C++ application with a C++ library like CPLEX in Concert Technology, you need to tell your compiler where to find the CPLEX and Concert include files (that is, the header files), and you also need to tell the linker where to find the CPLEX and Concert libraries. An instruction can be found here (https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSSA5P_20.1.0/ilog.odms.cplex.help/CPLEX/GettingStarted/topics/tutorials/Cplusplus/compiling.html

